---
title: Trust Me
date: 2025-11-01T19:30:00Z
tags: ["projects", "web3", "fullstack"]
draft: false
---

### Trust Me

I document the development process for this project in devlogs. Check out blog posts titled "TrustMe - xx". Like [this one](https://miguelmmota.github.io/blog/2025-11-03-trust-me-01/), where I go over the genesis of the idea, and what I hope to accomplish with it.

I pick up new projects to practice something new, and hopefully deliver something interesting or valuable. This is my first original, fullstack, web3 project. It has the potential to bring immense value, but to delivery on its promise it would likely require more marketing effort and resources than I'm willing to scrounge up at the moment. For this reason, I'm mostly focused on the tech aspect, my learnings, and what value people derive from it a small scale. And maybe, someday, this takes off and people love it, who knows?

The project is structured in a couple of repos:
1. [trust-me-contracts](https://github.com/MiguelMMota/trust-me-contracts) - includes the smart contracts that underpin the believability system
2. [trust-me-dapp](https://github.com/MiguelMMota/trust-me-dapp) - a dapp for interacting with the main use cases supported by the smart contracts:
  a. checking user stats
  b. viewing leaderboards for specific topics
  c. managing feedback: submitting, reviewing, rejecting

A more granular analysis of the project is (or will be) in the devlogs, check them out if you're interested! I'll also include references to the contracts and a link to the app when everything is deployed.


#### Key points
- web3
- fullstack
- Solidity / Foundry
